hi this is presto Walker here's a
mathematical problem that's related to
American football suppose A to B is an
impossible NFL score solve for the
values of a and B in fact consider the
value which maximizes a plus B give this
problem a try and when you're ready keep
watching the video for the solution
according to the rules of NFL football a
team can score two three six seven or
eight points but we don't need to
consider all of the different ways we
can just focus on two and three for this
problem a team can score using two and
three points it could score four points
by scoring two points two times it could
also score five points as a combination
of scoring three points and then two
points it could also score six points by
scoring three points two times now we
can consider this triplet of numbers and
if we add three to four points a team
can score seven points in the following
fashion if we add three points to five
points we can score eight points and if
we add three points to six points we can
score nine points we can repeat this
process if we look consider the triple
at seven eight nine if we add three
points to each one of these equations
we'll find out a team can score 10 11
and 12 points now we can clearly repeat
this process and we can show that it's
possible to reach every single point
total that's larger than two and this is
related to a mathematical problem the
coin problem or the Chicken McNugget
problem says that if a and B are whole
numbers that are relatively prime then
the largest impossible score or the
largest impossible denomination that you
can get just by adding the values and
multiples of those values is a times B
minus a minus B
in the NFL problem we have two and three
which are relatively prime because their
largest factors one so the largest
impossible score would be 2 times 3
minus 2 minus 3 which is 1 so that means
the largest point total that cannot be
achieved is 1 so if one team scores a
and another team scores B we know that a
and B can at most be 1 so we have a and
B can at most be 1 we could also have 0
so there are only 4 possibilities for an
impossible score 0 0 1 0 0 1 and 1 1
it's possible that a game could end in a
draw no team scores at all the last time
this happened was 1943 but it's possible
so 0 0 is not an impossible score the
only impossible scores are 1 0 0 1 and 1
1 of these 1 1 is the value that
maximizes a plus B so it's the largest
impossible score thanks for watching
this video please subscribe to my
channel I make videos on math and game
theory you can catch me on my blog mind
your decisions which you can follow on
Facebook Google+ and patreon you can
catch me on social media at pressure
Walker and if you liked the video please
check out my books there are links in
the video description